 Virtual Machine Manager News
 ============================

Release 0.5.4
-------------

This release focuses on minor feature enhancement and bug fixes. Using
the new GTK-VNC accelerated scaling support, the guest console window
can be smoothly resized to fill the screen. The SSH username is passed
through to the VNC console when tunnelling. Adding bridged network
devices is fixed. Support for all libvirt authentication methods is
enabled including Kerberos and PolicyKit. Solaris portability fix for
the text console. Support for detecting bonding and VLAN devices for
attaching guest NICs. Allow fullvirt guests to install off kernel and
initrd as well as existing CDROM methods. Fix invocation of DBus methods
to use an interface. Allow setting of autostart flag, and changing boot
device ordering. Control the new VM wizard based on declared hypervisor
capabilities.

Release 0.5.3
-------------

This is a bug fix release. The sizing of the VNC window is fixed for
screens where the physical size is less than the guest screen size.
The 'new vm' button is switched back to its old (more obvious style/
placement). Restore of VMs is working again for local connections. A
menu for sending special key sequences to the guest is added. Lots of
other misc bug fixes

Release 0.5.2
-------------

This is a bug fix release. Some broken menu items are hooked up again.
The rounding of memory values is fixed. Re-connecting to the VNC display
is fixed. Blocking of GTK accelerators is re-introduced when VNC is
active. Scrollbars on the VNC widget are re-introduced if the console
is close to the maximum local screensize. One new VM wizard is enabled
per connection. Hardware device details are immediately refreshed after
changes. Ability to add/remove display and input devices is enabled.

Release 0.5.1
-------------

This release improves upon the remote management capabilities. It can
now tunnel connections to the VNC server over SSH. It avoids prompting
for SSH passwords on the console. Handling of VNC connections & retries
is made more robust. There is support for changing CDROM media on the
fly (requires suitably updated libvirt). There is ability to PXE boot
install fullyvirtualized guests. Connetions to hypervisors are opened
in the background to avoid blocking the whole UI.

Release 0.5.0
-------------

This release introduces the ability to manage multiple remote machines,
using either SSH+public keys, or TLS+x509 certificates to connect and
authenticate. The main user interface is re-worked to show multiple
hosts in a tree view, remebering connections across restarts. It is
not currently possible to create new guests with a remote host connection.
This capability will be added in a future release. The guest VNC console
implementation has been replaced with the GTK-VNC widget for greatly
improved performance and increased feature set. Other miscellaneous bug
fixes and feature enhancements are also included.

Release 0.4.0
-------------

This release introduces major new functionality. There is new UI for the
creation & management of virtual networks using the new libvirt networking
APIs. The guest creation wizard can now attach VMs to a virtual network or
shared physical devices. The initial connection dialog is no longer shown,
either a QEMU or Xen connection is automatically opened based on host kernel
capabilities. For existing guests there is support for the addition and
removal of both disk & network devices (hot-add/remove too if supported by
the virtualization platform being used - eg Xen paravirt). The keymap for
guest VNC server is automatically set based on the local keymap to assist
people using non-English keyboard layouts. There is improved error reporting
for a number of critical operations such as starting guests / connecting
to the hypervisor.

Release 0.3.2
-------------

The release introduces online help for all windows / dialogs in the
application, to explain usage & operation of key functions. Auto-popup
of consoles was fixed for existing inactive domains. Additional control
operations are available on the right-click menu in the VM list. A 
handful of other minor bug fixes are also applied.

Release 0.3.1
-------------

This release introduces support for managing QEMU / KVM virtual machines
using the new libvirt QEMU driver backend. This requires a new libvirt
(at least 0.2.0) to enable the QEMU driver. It also requires an install
of the virtinst package of at least version 0.101.0 to support QEMU. The
dual cursor problem is worked around by grabbing the mouse pointer upon
first button press (release with Ctrl+Alt). The progress bar display
when creating new VMs has had its appearance tweaked. The new VM creation
wizard also allows the user to specify the type of guest OS being installed.
This will allow the setup of virtual hardware to be optimized for the needs
of specific guest OS.

Release 0.3.0
-------------

This release brings a major functionality update, enabling management
of inactive domains. This requires a new libvirt (at least 0.1.11)
to provide implementations of inactive domain management for Xen 3.0.3
and Xen 3.0.4. With this new functionality the display will list all
guests which are in the 'shutoff' state. The guest can be started with
the 'Run' button in the virtual console window. The vistinst package
must also be updated to at least version 0.100.0 to ensure that during
provisioning of guests it uses the new inactive domain management APIs.
Finally there have been a variety of minor UI fixes & enhancements
such as progress bars during guest creation, reliability fixes to the
virtual console and even greater coverage for translations.

Release 0.2.6
-------------

The release focus has been on major bug fixing. This is also the
first release in which (partial) translations are available for
the UI in approximately 20 languages - thanks to the Fedora i18n
team for excellant progress on this. It is now possible to control 
the virt-manager UI with command line arguments as well as the DBus
API & it DBus activation is no longer used by default which fixes
interaction with GNOME keyring & AT-SPI accesibility. Numerous
UI issues were fixed / clarified, particularly in the graphical 
console and new VM creation wizard.


Release 0.1.4
-------------

 * Integration with GNOME keyring for the VNC console to avoid
   need to remember passwords when accessing the guest domain's
   console
 * Use cairo to rendered a '50% alpha gray wash' over the screenshot
   to give appearance of a 'dimmed' display when paused. Also render
   the word 'paused' in big letters.
 * Initial cut of code for saving domain snapshots to disk
 * Added icons for buttons which were missing graphics
 * Miscellaneous RPM spec file fixes to comply with rpmlint
 * Update status icons to match those in the gnome-applet-vm
 * Added domain ID and # VCPUs to summary view
 * Misc bug fixes
	
Release 0.1.3
-------------

 * Fixed DBus service activation & general brokenness
 * Added a display of virtual CPU count in summary page
 * Fixed alignment of status label in details page
 * Make hardware config panel resizeable
 * Switch detailed graph rendering to use sparkline code
 * Switch to use filled sparkline graphs
	
Release 0.1.2
-------------

 * First public release
